---
title: v0.2 Release Notes
category: Meta
---

# Overview & Rationale

**Overall Objective:**
To design a RPG suitable for solo play of prewritten and custom modules from various systems.

**Version Goal**
Release a stripped down version of the system that can be built upon and properly versioned.

**Limitations**
- Not considering custom modules & generation of content
- Limiting to basic “interesting” combat
- No non-combat mechanics
- No Character Creation 

We can model off of existing RPGs for “swinginess”, satisfying balance, etc. But for now, we will make a simple character


## Player Characters

**Core Stats**
We want to leave this open to adjustment later. A balanced game would use statistics, playtests and such to establish the correct balance required. For now, we are using a best judgement.

Instead of the 0-20, 2-stepping of D&D, we will use 0-10 with an aim of removing that complexity to levelling in the future. It seems to work alright for them.

d20s are a big range to balance, so we will use d6s. The average hit (3.5) fits nicely in our base HP (10) with enough room for a 8 or 12 hp character to feel meaningfully weaker or stronger without being wildly different.

We want to get the core mechanics down in this version, so No Classes, No Races, No Skill Trees, No Levelling. Just a bare-bones “Human Fighter” with A sword and a bow.


### Hirelings & Party Composition
There are a few ways that solo rpgs can compose their party.

**Single PC**

This gives a player a deep connection with the character, but the PC is very prone to effects such as sleep, paralysis, etc. These would need to be removed from the game or ignored/altered.

Another issue with this is that you are limited by your class/race choice - so some options may be objectively worse than others (e.g. a frail wizard, or no magic at all)

**Multiple PCs**

In this setup, the attachment to the main character is diluted among a full party. This is feasible, but could be challenging to invest and track across multiple sheets etc.

**Single PC and Hirelings / Generic Party**

A balance between these is to continue to focus on a single character, but to supplement the PC with NPCs. This gives the possibility of allowing story characters to go with players, leading to satisfying developments and investment into the story.

*Future Requirement:* A system will need to be developed to understand how a PC can recruit faceless/named NPCs, possible MOBs, pets, etc, as well as handling parties of different sizes We will not handle this in v0.2.

For the time being the main PC will be accompanied by 3 other nameless NPCs using the “Soldier” MOB block.

## NPCs/MOBs
The terms NPCS (Non-Player Characters) and MOBs( Monsters Or Bosses) are used interchangeably in this document. “NPCs” may be more frequently used in cases where the target is not inherently hostile, and/or sentient, whereas “MOB” may be used for more feral, monstrous targets that may be traditionally hostile to the PC. This is a rule of thumb only.

These creatures all have a statistic “block” which contains their information. Because of the breath of possible creatures, adjusted forms, and so on (e.g. an elf, a zombie elf, a ghostly elf, a half-elf, an elf who has trained in the army, an unfit elf, a boss elf, an elf goon, etc.), mechanics, bonuses and so on will be taken from a common pool of “Tags”. For this first version, we will limit ourselves to three enemies for an example scenario. This is something that GURPs does quite well, but it can be a bit of a time investment for player character creation.

Additionally,


## Example Scenario
An Example Scenario has been included in this release to have something that can be tested. It can be expanded as the system develops.

## Miscellany

### Levelling

Levelling is not handled in v0.2, However, we present considerations for the future:
Milestone Levelling can be narritively satisfying, but XP Levelling can provide opportunities to balance for strong parties. I am inclined to think that balance should not be postponed via xp, but immediately affecting the encounters they are facing - otherwise, the game may feel very light in the first half of the game, then hard in the latter half.
